## Must sentences

* [ ] 2 Because digital channels are now the primary way the public interacts with the Federal Government, executive agencies **must** design and develop websites and digital services to meet the public’s expectations for high-quality digital experiences that are simple to use, seamless across journeys, and secure by design to improve customer experience, satisfaction, and trust.
* [ ] In designing their websites and digital services, agencies **must** strive from the start to maximize access and usability so the widest possible range of people may reach and interact with the government through its websites and digital services.
* [ ] •  Follow accessibility standards: Agencies subject to Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 **must** make electronic and information technology accessible to people with disabilities in accordance with statute and **must** comply with accessibility standards as specified by Section 508.
* [ ] All public-facing websites and digital services **must** comply with the Federal website standards 8 published by the Technology Transformation Services of the General Services Administration (GSA) which incorporate the USWDS.
* [ ] •  Use a government domain name: Agencies generally **must** use a .gov or .mil domain name for public-facing websites and digital services that are used for official communication.
* [ ] 20 Agencies **must** use plain language for any document that is necessary for obtaining any Federal Government service or benefit, provides information about a Federal Government service or benefit, or explains to the public how to comply with requirements the Federal Government administers or enforces.
* [ ] 24  •  Translate or localize content: Agencies **must** translate content when required by law and should translate or adapt content based on user needs to more effectively communicate with people served by the website or digital service.
* [ ] Agencies’ websites **must** be structured well; contain rich, descriptive metadata; feature machine-readable content to the extent practicable; and follow search engine optimization (SEO) practices to ensure that members of the public can access government information and services from third-party websites and applications.
* [ ] •  Use on-site search functionality: Agencies’ public-facing websites **must** contain a search function that allows users to easily search content intended for public use.
* [ ] Agencies **must** not limit which search engines or crawlers can access or archive their public content.
* [ ] Secure by Design, Secure by Default Federal agencies **must** ensure that every phase of the design and development lifecycle for their websites and digital services accounts for application security and its impact on users.
* [ ] Public-facing agency systems that support multi-factor authentication (MFA) **must** give users the option to use phishingresistant authentication.
* [ ] 32 Agencies **must** require certain categories of users to employ phishing-resistant MFA to access agency-hosted accounts.
* [ ] 34 For example, if the users of a given website are expected to log in only rarely (e.g., once a year for tax purposes), then the agency administering the website **must** not deactivate accounts simply because they have been inactive for almost a year.
* [ ] •  Allow users to safely report security issues: As required by Binding Operational Directive (BOD) 20-01, issued by the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA), each agency **must** have a vulnerability disclosure policy that applies to all its internet-accessible websites and digital services, even those that are not intentionally made available to the public.
* [ ] This policy **must** allow the public to report potential security vulnerabilities and provide that the agency will not pursue legal action based on activities that represent a good faith attempt to comply with the policy.
* [ ] While agencies may list their registered domains as a reference, they **must** not limit the scope of the policy to specific websites or use an allow list to restrict the range of users who may submit reports.
* [ ] 36  •  Avoid unnecessary third-party resources: Agencies **must** not embed static, unchanging web assets, such as a specific version of a common and widely used code library (e.g., JavaScript, CSS, fonts) that are hosted on third-party services not under the control of the agency.
* [ ] 46 •  Design mobile-friendly and device-agnostic websites and digital services: To the greatest extent practicable, agencies **must** ensure that public-facing websites and digital services are mobile-friendly and developed in such a way that the website may be navigated, viewed, and accessed on a smartphone, tablet computer, or other mobile device.
* [ ] •  Use modern protocols: Agencies **must** employ the latest stable versions of HTTP (i.e., HTTP/2, HTTP/3, and any successor versions), HTML, and other relevant standards.
* [ ] Agencies **must** keep pace with these developments and optimize for real-world situations (such as intermittent connectivity or throttled bandwidth).
* [ ] Privacy The Federal Government **must** consider and protect an individual’s privacy throughout the information lifecycle.
* [ ] 54  •  Maintain a clear, up-to-date Privacy Policy: Agencies **must** post Privacy Policies on all public-facing websites and digital services (including their principal, sub-agency, component, and program websites and digital services).
* [ ] For each website, agencies **must** post a link to that website’s Privacy Policy on any known, major entry points to the website as well as any webpage that collects PII.
* [ ] 55 A Privacy Policy **must**: o Be written in plain language and organized in a way that is easy to understand and navigate; o Provide useful information that the public would need to make an informed decision about whether and how to interact with the agency; 56 o Be updated whenever the agency makes a substantive change to the practices it describes; o Include a time-and-date stamp to inform users of the last time the agency made a substantive change to the practices the Privacy Policy describes; o Adhere to all other applicable OMB requirements; and o Include a link to the agency’s Privacy Program Page.
* [ ] 57 Agencies **must** provide a privacy notice, whenever feasible, where a Privacy Act statement is not required but members of the public nonetheless could provide PII to the agency using a website or digital service.
* [ ] •  Maintain an up-to-date Privacy Program Page: Each agency **must** maintain a central resource page dedicated to the privacy program on the agency’s principal website,  53  See OMB Memorandum M-16-24, Role and Designation of Senior Agency Officials for Privacy.
* [ ] At a minimum, agencies **must** include the following on the Privacy Program Page: o System of records notices (SORNs), matching notices and agreements, exemptions to the Privacy Act, Privacy Act implementation rules, and instructions for submitting a Privacy Act request.
* [ ] Agencies **must** list and provide links to PIAs.
However, agencies may determine not to include a link to a PIA if doing so would raise security concerns or reveal classified or sensitive information (sensitive information may include information that is potentially damaging to a national interest, law enforcement effort, or competitive business interest).
* [ ] Agencies **must** have a specific, compelling justification in order to decline to post a link to a PIA.
* [ ] Agencies **must** list and provide links to all publicly available agency policies on privacy, including any directives, instructions, handbooks, manuals, or other guidance.
* [ ] Agencies **must** list and provide links to all publicly available agency reports on privacy (e.g., annual matching reports submitted pursuant to the Privacy Act, Section 803 reports submitted pursuant to the Implementing Recommendations of the 9/11 Commission Act of 2007).
* [ ] Agencies **must** provide appropriate agency contact information for individuals who wish to submit a privacy-related question or complaint.
* [ ] Agencies **must** identify their SAOP and provide contact information for the SAOP’s office.
* [ ] 63 In the footer of each agency’s principal website or principal sub-agency websites, 64 the agency **must** include links to: o The agency’s “about” page, which contains descriptions of the mission and statutory authority of the agency, information about the organizational structure of the agency, and the agency’s strategic plan.
* [ ] 67 o The agency’s vulnerability disclosure policy, which **must** include a security contact for the public to report observed or suspected information security issues.
* [ ] In the footer of each agency’s website, or the entry point for a digital service, the agency **must** include links to the website’s privacy policy.
* [ ] •  Maintain non-digital interaction options: Agencies **must** always maintain an accessible method (i.e., physical availability) for completing a digital service through in-person, paper-based, or other means, so customers without the ability to use a digital service are not deprived of or impeded in their ability to access it.
* [ ] This means that there is not a particular prescribed technology, process, or user interaction that **must** be used to generate an electronic signature.
* [ ] 72 Agencies have flexibility in implementing electronic signature processes, but **must** ensure that the use of electronic signatures and the associated signing process satisfy all applicable legal and security requirements.
* [ ] All agencies **must** immediately take steps to achieve alignment, to the greatest extent practicable.
* [ ] For each service that cannot be made available in a digital format, the agency **must** provide the information specified by section 4(d) of the 21st Century IDEA.
* [ ] Keep form information up-to-date: When seeking to obtain approval to collect information or extend or revise an existing collection, agencies **must** continue to document in their Information Collection Request submission materials to OMB’s Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs (OIRA) how forms and associated websites and services are consistent with digitization requirements.

## Should sentences

* [ ] Agencies **should** ensure their websites, including web applications, digital services, and mobile applications, conform to the requirements and principles described below to design and deliver a high-quality, integrated digital experience that is simple, seamless, and secure across agencies for all users.
* [ ] •  Design accessible experiences: Agencies **should** design websites and digital services to be usable by all people, including those with disabilities, without the need for adaptation or specialized design, to the greatest extent possible.
* [ ] 5 In addition to the accessibility standards required by Section 508, agencies **should** apply the most current Web Content Accessibility Guidelines  4  All web applications are a website, but not all websites constitute a web application.
* [ ] The term “website” **should** be read to apply to websites (including web applications); however, when the term “web application” is used then the requirements may only be appropriate for web applications.
* [ ] Agencies **should** be aware of the distinctions between web sites, applications, and services when attempting to apply the principles of this memorandum to web services, since it may be technically inappropriate or technically unfeasible.
* [ ] 6 •  Test for accessibility: Agencies **should** incorporate accessibility testing into website updates and release processes to address issues detected in testing before code is released.
* [ ] Accessibility testing **should** include automated scanning, manual testing of websites, and usability testing with people with disabilities, as well as testing with users of adaptive technologies.
* [ ] Because automated testing tools are limited and can only detect some accessibility issues, agencies **should** incorporate manual testing of websites and digital services to cover all accessibility requirements.
* [ ] •  Conduct inclusive research: Agencies **should** incorporate the needs of individuals with disabilities into the design and development of websites and digital services, and **should** include individuals with disabilities in usability testing of new tools or features.
* [ ] •  Promote accessibility and welcome feedback: Agencies **should** develop and publish an accessibility statement that provides a public feedback mechanism to contact the agency in case a user encounters problems and wishes to seek assistance or report an accessibility issue.
* [ ] 4  •  Use the United States Web Design System: Agencies **should** use the United States Web Design System (USWDS) to ensure a consistent appearance across public-facing websites and digital services.
* [ ] Agencies **should** not establish unnecessary brand and product identities, or multiple uncoordinated identities, that could create public confusion (such as using an internal-facing project or program name for the name of a public-facing digital service).
* [ ] •  Apply agency brand design consistently: Agencies **should** ensure that websites and digital services use appropriate brand identity in a consistent manner, including when an agency uses a third-party website or web application (such as a social media platform) to communicate.
* [ ] 11 Agency websites and digital services **should** have a cohesive, consistent look and feel that is aligned with agency design and branding guidelines.
* [ ] Agencies **should** establish internal control processes to ensure that all public-facing websites and digital services are checked for consistency prior to public release.
* [ ] •  Centralize visual design and brand identity resources: Agencies **should** maintain a design page (e.g., [agency].gov/design or design.[agency].gov) that centralizes information about the agency’s visual design and brand identity standards with relevant policies and guidelines on how to use various design elements (e.g., logos, seals, emblems, insignia, name, color specifications, typography, imagery) to ensure the design standards are used appropriately and consistently within and across the agency.
* [ ] When utilizing third-party services for official communication, agencies **should** use appropriate brand identity as well as use and expose a .gov or .mil email address to verify for the  8  21st Century IDEA, § 3(e).
* [ ] However, all public-facing websites and digital services within a single organization **should** use the same brand identity and visual design.
* [ ] When an organization establishes an independent brand, agency-led reviews or other processes **should** be conducted at the organizational level that established the brand, using such internal controls to ensure the brand is consistently applied prior to public release.
* [ ] 13 •  Understand user perception: Agencies **should** conduct customer and user research, qualitatively and quantitively, to better understand their customers’ and users’ interpretations and understanding of their brand and other trusted elements of their individual components, offices, or programs across channels, especially for websites and digital services, email, text/SMS, and social media, because these are the primary channels the public uses to engage and interact with government online.
* [ ] •  Reduce user friction by limiting warnings: Agencies **should** simplify the user experience to reduce friction for users.
* [ ] In general, agencies **should** avoid the use of unnecessary pop-ups, modals, overlays, interstitials, and other messages that interrupt the user experience and impede the user from completing a task, unless it is a necessary part of the design of the user experience (e.g., a warning before permanently deleting an item) or is otherwise required by law.
* [ ] When determining whether or not to use a warning, agencies **should** consider the urgency of the information and whether a user action is required as a result of the message.
* [ ] •  Do not alarm or frighten your users in ways that erode trust: Agencies **should** consider how legal, security, and error messages are presented and conveyed to users.
* [ ] Agencies **should** avoid using a tone in their notices to users (such as about access, authorized use, or monitoring) that may have the unintended consequences of eroding trust and impacting the ability of users to successfully transact or engage with government.
* [ ] 14 Instead, agencies **should** provide notice in a way that communicates the information clearly and with a tone that still welcomes appropriate engagement with the website or digital service.
* [ ] To the extent appropriate, agencies **should** convey necessary legal and other required information (such as about acceptable use and access conditions, government responsibilities to the user, or other responsibilities associated with using the website or digital service) in a centralized manner.
* [ ] Agencies are responsible for the content they disseminate and **should** take affirmative steps to maximize its 13  For example, to the extent practicable, an agency **should** add its seal or emblem to its profile page on a social media website to indicate that it is an official agency account.
* [ ] Similarly, to the extent practicable, an agency may leverage a third-party service on a non-governmental domain to host websites or content for official communication or delivery of services on behalf of the government, but the agency **should** perform domain name masking with a .gov or .mil domain name to verify to the public that they are interacting with the government and not a nongovernmental actor.
* [ ] 14 Specifically, agencies **should** not interpret related controls in the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Special Publication 800-53 (such as AC-8 in SP 800-53 revision 5) as requiring the display of warning banners on digital services designed for access by the general public.
* [ ] 15 Agencies **should** consult USWDS and Digital.gov for more specific guidance on how best to display required links and other relevant information on websites and digital services.
* [ ] Proper content strategy **should** provide consistent answers to commonly asked questions and other top-trafficked web content, and those answers **should** be accurate, targeted to the appropriate audience, and non-duplicative.
* [ ] One Answer •  Remove outdated content: Agencies **should** address outdated and inaccurate content as soon as practicable.
* [ ] At the same time, agencies **should** be cognizant of potentially relevant obligations and policies, 17 such as the need to provide adequate notice when initiating, substantially modifying, or terminating significant information that the public may be using (such as historical information); removal of information that is useful to the public can also negatively impact trust.
* [ ] 18 When removing content, where appropriate, agencies **should** create redirects (e.g., an HTTP 301) to direct the public and search engines to new or more accurate content.
* [ ] •  Do not publish duplicative content: Agencies **should** avoid unnecessary duplication and repetition of content or similarly related content and **should** establish processes to review and deduplicate content across websites within their agency as well as across government for cross-agency information and services, whenever possible.
* [ ] •  Retire duplicate websites and digital services: Agencies **should** decommission or consolidate websites and digital services that duplicate content or functionality.
* [ ] Each website, digital service, and piece of content **should** serve the express purposes of the organization and identified wants and needs of users, and users **should** feel confident that  16  See OMB’s Guidelines for Ensuring and Maximizing the Quality, Objectivity, Utility, and Integrity of Information Disseminated by Federal Agencies, 67 Fed.
* [ ] •  Get user feedback on content: Agencies **should** provide a feedback mechanism for users to report satisfaction or dissatisfaction with each web page or piece of web content, which enables the public to identify potentially inaccurate, outdated, confusing, or duplicative content.
* [ ] Plain Language Federal agencies **should** publish content online so the public can find what they need, understand what they find, and use what they find to meet their needs.
* [ ] Ideally, content **should** be designed and written so it is conversational, structured, and scannable by users.
* [ ] 21 In addition to meeting the Act’s requirements, each agency **should**, to the extent practicable, write content for websites and digital services in accordance with Federal Plain Language Guidelines.
* [ ] 22  •  Write and test content for the intended audience: Agencies **should** write online content for the intended target audience and **should** routinely review online content to make sure it is easy for the audience to read and understand.
* [ ] Agencies **should** test online content with the intended target audience before and after publishing.
* [ ] When writing online content for the general public, agencies **should** produce material that is fully comprehensible to the average reader, who reads at an eighth-grade level 23 and generally prefers to read online content at levels lower than that.
* [ ] •  Write content in conversational language: Agencies **should** write online content with an active voice; use clear and concise sentences; avoid slang, jargon, and acronyms; and use logical organization and informational headings.
* [ ] Agencies **should** write conversationally, like regular people talk to each other.
* [ ] When publishing content for websites and digital services, agencies **should** consider possible ways to balance competing needs for readability and legal precision.
* [ ] Even in the absence of such an obligation, agencies **should** ensure that websites and digital services are offered in languages that meet the needs of their customers.
* [ ] •  Consider limited English proficiency: Agencies **should** examine websites and digital services to ensure content is written and implemented so that LEP users can meaningfully access those services consistent with, and without unduly burdening, the fundamental mission of the agency.
* [ ] 24  •  Translate or localize content: Agencies must translate content when required by law and **should** translate or adapt content based on user needs to more effectively communicate with people served by the website or digital service.
* [ ] 25 If a significant portion of the target audience speaks a language other than English, translation or localization and developing multilingual content for a website or digital service **should** be a priority.
* [ ] Agencies **should** develop an internal strategy for developing and managing multilingual content in conjunction with the information architecture of their websites and digital services.
* [ ] •  Do not rely on auto-translation alone: Agencies **should** utilize human-based multilingual content creation and test with native language speakers to verify accuracy and to understand cultural context instead of relying solely upon machine translation services (e.g., services where a computer algorithm translates text automatically into another language without human assistance or review).
* [ ] Content Governance The public **should** not be overly burdened with the responsibility to determine which online content published by the Federal Government is most current or most appropriate for their needs when published content differs or conflicts.
* [ ] 9  free to draw their own conclusions, agencies **should** take steps to reduce the cognitive burden or potential uncertainty that users might experience while also ensuring the quality and accuracy of the information they publish online.
* [ ] •  Establish an enterprise content strategy: Agencies **should** develop internal content design and editorial guidance, including content creation guidelines, information architecture standards, and standardized language for common terms and phrases, to reduce the effort required by individual agency components, website managers, or digital delivery teams to develop or update web content on a regular basis.
* [ ] •  Establish a content management system strategy: Agencies **should** utilize content management systems (CMS) with automated editorial workflows to support ongoing review and quality control of content published on websites and digital services.
* [ ] Agencies **should** develop an enterprise-wide approach to content management systems and **should** consolidate and reduce existing content management systems, where appropriate, to reduce cost and complexity.
* [ ] •  Establish content review controls: Agencies **should** establish internal control processes to regularly review websites and digital services to ensure that content is current, accurate, useful, and authoritative and not outdated, inaccurate, useless, or duplicative.
* [ ] At a minimum, any web content that is not actively maintained **should** be reviewed no less than once every three years from initial publication or date of the last review to determine if there are opportunities to consolidate or remove outdated content.
* [ ] •  Involve subject matter experts: Agency control processes **should** ensure that decisions regarding content, especially the removal or modification of existing content, are informed by persons knowledgeable of the content (such as subject matter experts) 26 and, to the extent practicable, the target audience of the content.
* [ ] •  Clearly label non-governmental content: Agencies **should** establish processes to label or distinguish non-governmental content (e.g., third-party information or research, user-generated content) that is disseminated on an agency website or digital service, including links to third-party websites, 27 in a manner that minimizes the impact of such labeling on the usability of their websites and digital services.
* [ ] Public Awareness Campaigns  26  For example, statistical agencies and units **should** conduct the review of their own content.
* [ ] Agencies **should** consult USWDS for best practices for labeling content that includes external links.
* [ ] However, online campaigns **should** be time-bound, strategic, and measured for performance.
* [ ] Agencies **should** monitor timeliness and duration of public awareness and advertising campaigns to ensure that expired online content does not persist.
* [ ] •  Utilize campaign landing pages: Agencies **should** avoid creating standalone websites (“micro sites”) for marketing, advertising, and public awareness campaigns that unnecessarily duplicate information or functionality found on the agency’s principal website.
* [ ] Instead, agencies **should** use the URL for the authoritative web page or tool on the agency’s principal website in their awareness campaigns (e.g., [agency].gov/findservices); use vanity URLs that automatically redirect users to an authoritative web page or tool (e.g., get[agency]services.gov); or design and publish a single campaign landing page (e.g., [agency].gov/services) that directs users to authoritative web pages or tools.
* [ ] This search function **should** be a site-wide global search and, when appropriate, could be a feature-specific search for a subset of the website content that is of significant public 11  interest (e.g., find-a-form tool).
* [ ] Agencies **should** participate in the Search.gov program by utilizing Search.gov for on-site search solutions or by integrating search solutions with Search.gov.
* [ ] •  Design search-engine optimized content: Agencies **should** ensure that publicly available content (i.e., content that does not require user authentication or sign in) is designed and structured so it can be effectively crawled and indexed by search engines.
* [ ] Agencies **should** employ best practices to improve crawling or indexing of web content, including using sitemaps, robots.txt files, 29 and descriptive metadata in commonly parsed fields (e.g., meta element tags).
* [ ] •  Promote the “right” content: Agencies **should** be strategic with SEO efforts and **should** think about SEO in the context of the intended audience.
* [ ] Agencies **should** perform keyword research and actively look at third-party search results to better understand how the public is trying to find information and **should** optimize content accordingly so that search terms generate results that are most likely to address the user’s query.
* [ ] •  Optimize content for discoverability and utility: Agencies **should** optimize and organize online content to help the public find what they are looking for as efficiently as possible, with the fewest number of steps or clicks, and without forcing the user to understand bureaucratic jargon, internal government concepts and structures, or any other superfluous information that would unnecessarily impede the public’s understanding.
* [ ] •  Indicate timeliness of content: Agencies **should** indicate when content on static, 30 public-facing websites was created or last updated by including temporal information in line with content or by using “Last Modified” in the HTTP header, in metadata tags, or in XML sitemaps.
* [ ] When developing a timestamp strategy, agencies **should** prioritize adding timestamps to content that is time-sensitive, frequently changed, or top-trafficked.
* [ ] If an agency detects significant public interest in scraping information from web pages, the agency **should** strongly consider making that information available as machine-readable data that can be accessed in bulk and optimized for automated access (such as through an API).
* [ ] •  Provide secure and usable authentication: Federal websites and digital services that require authentication **should** be both secure and easy to log into.
* [ ] However, to ensure a diversity of options for public access, agencies **should** permit a variety of authentication methods.
* [ ] 13  •  Design secure digital services and experiences: When developing software, agencies **should** follow and automate security best practices to ensure security is considered throughout all stages of the design and development lifecycle, to the greatest extent possible.
* [ ] 35  •  Conduct regular security assessments and testing: Agencies **should** regularly assess the risk to websites and provide commensurate security testing of those sites based on that assessment.
* [ ] The assessment **should** consider the potential impact of a security incident on vital transactions or core services provided to the public, access to timely information, government and vital external operations, and public trust.
* [ ] Agencies **should** perform manual penetration testing, where appropriate, based on threat analysis and the criticality of the underlying system.
* [ ] 14  Federal websites and digital services **should** be designed and delivered with users at the center of the experience while also achieving an agency’s business or organizational goals.
* [ ] Every website and digital service **should** have a defined core customer, segmented group, or user.
* [ ] Only after agencies have researched and validated the specific wants and needs of users **should** they create a new website or digital service.
* [ ] Agencies **should** have a continuous, user-centered design process for gathering and responding to user wants and needs, with both qualitative and quantitative research and data-driven analysis influencing design, technology, and related business decisions.
* [ ] •  Start with users’ wants and needs: Agencies **should** conduct generative user research and business or market analysis, employing common user-centered research and design practices, 38 before developing a new website or digital service.
* [ ] Agencies **should** proactively identify customer or user pain points and opportunities to make improvements to existing experiences or to design new digital solutions, and use research and data to validate their assumptions about how customers or users want to interact with their agency or service.
* [ ] •  Engage users throughout design and development: Agencies **should** evaluate the user experience created by their websites and digital services from beginning to end to proactively reduce burden on the public.
* [ ] Agencies **should** seek actionable feedback from diverse user groups throughout the development process, including while researching an initial design concept, iterating on content and user interface design, conducting usability testing, and monitoring the performance of the website or digital service.
* [ ] Agencies **should** establish processes to get qualitative feedback from actual users and not rely solely on web analytics data or the perspectives of frontline agency staff.
* [ ] User research **should** be conducted directly with members of the real-life user base.
* [ ] 39  •  Test with a representative cross-section of users: Agencies **should** conduct ongoing usability testing to validate websites and digital services, including iterations on existing designs or new features and functionality, for ease of use and overall user satisfaction.
* [ ] As new pain points and challenges are identified, agencies **should** make incremental, iterative changes to respond to real-time user needs and improve usability or functionality.
* [ ] Agencies **should** proactively engage users from underserved communities to ensure their perspectives are incorporated.
* [ ] Usability testing **should** incorporate persona 40 groups that have been developed to capture the spectrum of user types for the website or digital service.
* [ ] However, these activities are complementary to user research and **should** not be considered as user research or a substitute for user research.
* [ ] 15  •  Incentivize participation: Agencies **should** compensate participants for their time and expertise when conducting user research, where appropriate.
* [ ] Agencies **should** establish policies and processes to compensate research participants.
* [ ] 41  •  Make data-driven design and development decisions: Agencies **should** enhance the functionality of their websites and digital services through data-driven decision-making.
* [ ] This **should** include, but is not limited to, measuring task completion, using web analytics to understand user flows and behavior, assessing user satisfaction through feedback surveys, optimizing web pages and content for performance, and conducting research on user burden.
* [ ] •  Utilize web analytics: Agencies **should** use web analytics to better understand user behavior for the purpose of improving public-facing websites and digital services.
* [ ] •  Design customizable experiences: Agencies **should** design websites and digital services with user-controlled options to customize users’ experience or to activate or deactivate certain features within an experience.
* [ ] Agencies **should** prioritize customization that helps users complete more relevant tasks, and do so more quickly.
* [ ] •  Respect user privacy: Agencies **should** consider privacy risks when utilizing customization or personalization technologies and **should** ensure that the design of the digital service incorporates appropriate privacy safeguards.
* [ ] 45  •  Pre-populate with user data: Agencies **should** leverage data previously provided by users, where appropriate, to reduce the burden of future interactions.
* [ ] Agencies **should** consult their counsel and Chief Financial Officer appropriately when establishing policies and processes for compensation.
* [ ] 16  providing an authenticated experience, agencies **should** consider using existing information about the person to populate or pre-fill known form data about the person, as appropriate.
* [ ] Agencies **should** consider privacy risks when assessing whether to pre-populate user data, particularly if users provided that data for a different purpose, and ensure that its deployment incorporates appropriate privacy safeguards.
* [ ] Agencies **should** also allow users to adjust online settings to establish their preferred channels and frequency for receiving notifications and communications.
* [ ] Mobile-First Design That Scales Across Varying Device Sizes Federal websites and digital services targeted at the public **should** be available, accessible, and usable on a wide range of devices and platforms.
* [ ] 47  •  Design mobile-first experiences: Agencies **should** draw on mobile-first design principles 48 when developing (or redeveloping) public-facing websites and digital services so that they are responsive on a variety of devices and window or screen sizes as well as popular mobile device browsers.
* [ ] For websites or digital services where the majority of users are on mobile devices or tablets, mobile-first design **should** be a priority.
* [ ] •  Test on mobile and tablet devices: Agencies **should** ensure that websites and digital services are functionally tested not only on desktop and laptop computers, but also on mobile and tablet devices, for both usability and performance.
* [ ] •  Leverage device usage patterns: Agencies **should** measure and analyze the device usage patterns of their users in the aggregate to optimize the design and experience based on the  46  As measured via the Digital Analytics Program (https://analytics.usa.gov/), as of the publication of this memo.
* [ ] Agencies **should** also ensure that websites and digital services are designed and tested proportionately based on device usage patterns.
* [ ] •  Optimize for performance: Agencies **should** routinely analyze websites and digital services for load speed and continually strive to optimize for performance (e.g., high page speeds, low page load times, small load page size).
* [ ] 49 Agencies **should** give special consideration to low-bandwidth users whose mobile devices and cellular connectivity are often their only means to interact with the government online.
* [ ] •  Avoid building or maintaining unnecessary mobile apps: An agency **should** avoid building native mobile applications 50 unless it has validated a compelling user need through research, and has balanced the need against additional long-term cost implications.
* [ ] Agencies **should** evaluate their existing mobile apps and retire those that are not continuing to provide significant user or business value.
* [ ] Instead, agencies **should** prioritize the design, development, and management of web applications that can be used on mobile devices.
* [ ] 50 Mobile applications are software applications designed to run natively on a mobile device’s operating system and **should** not be confused with mobile web applications, which are applications that are optimized to be used on a browser on a mobile device.
* [ ] •  Design with privacy in mind: To ensure appropriate risk management and compliance with applicable law and policy, agencies **should** consult their privacy programs led by Senior Agency Officials for Privacy (SAOPs) 53 at the earliest planning and development stages for websites and digital services that involve PII, and they **should** continue the review of privacy risks throughout both the development and information lifecycles.
* [ ] The privacy notice **should** include a brief description of the agency’s practices with respect to the PII that the agency is collecting, maintaining, using, or disseminating.
* [ ] If deciding not to post a link to a PIA, agencies **should** produce a summary or a modified version of the PIA that is suitable for posting.
* [ ] 20  •  Prefer loose coupling: When building websites and digital services, agencies **should** prefer loose coupling 60 as a design pattern over monolithic architecture patterns, where appropriate.
* [ ] •  Decouple front-end and back-end systems: When developing websites and digital services, especially around large, complex systems, agencies **should** consider decoupling front-end (e.g., presentation, client-side layer) user interfaces from back-end (e.g., serverside, data access layer) systems.
* [ ] •  Default to static websites: Where a website or digital service does not require a dynamic back-end service to provide necessary functionality, agencies **should** prefer “static” website architectures.
* [ ] •  Promote interoperability by leveraging standard interfaces: Agencies **should** build and share standardized interfaces (e.g., web APIs with industry-standard exchange formats), to the greatest extent possible, where appropriate.
* [ ] To ensure websites and web applications work well in this ecosystem, agencies **should** follow appropriate web standards 61 to the greatest extent practicable.
* [ ] Agencies **should** avoid building or maintaining websites or web applications that only work in a specific browser by design.
* [ ] Agencies **should** ensure that websites and web applications are generally compatible and functional across a wide range of common browsers.
* [ ] When developing information for the web, agencies **should** default to creating and publishing content in an HTML format in lieu of publishing content in other electronic document formats that are designed for printing or  60  In this context, loosely coupling is an approach in which components in a system are weakly associated with each other, and depend on each other to the least extent practicable.
* [ ] 62 Due to the wide ranges of browsers and browser-related standards, universal browser access is impractical, but, nevertheless, agencies **should** strive for browser compatibility rather than designing for a singular browser as a means to save development time and reduce costs.
* [ ] An agency **should** develop online content in a non-HTML format only if necessitated by a specific user need.
* [ ] •  Promote resources to developers: Agencies **should** maintain a developer page (e.g., [agency].gov/developer or developer.[agency].gov) to centralize information about relevant technical materials for external developers.
* [ ] This **should** include information on how to access and use public web APIs, public source code or code repositories, and any other appropriate developer tools or technical documentation that could help developers build integrated digital experiences.
* [ ] For other required links, Federal agencies **should** determine the best location on their website to place those links based on user needs and the underlying requirement from law or policy.
* [ ] 64 Each department or agency, as well as its significant components, offices, or programs, as determined by law or the agency, **should** provide the required links on its primary homepage.
* [ ] 22  Agencies **should** consult USWDS and Digital.gov for more specific recommendations on how to best display required links and other relevant information on websites and digital services.
* [ ] Forms, services, and associated processes **should** be designed and modernized with digital service delivery in mind for the public and agencies to fully reap the transformational benefits and promises of a digital government, including increased convenience of online transactions, greater cost savings, and higher levels of public satisfaction with and trust in government.
* [ ] •  Provide a digital option for forms: Agencies **should** make forms available to the public in a digital format to the greatest extent practicable.
* [ ] The design and development of digital forms **should** be prioritized over the creation of paper forms or electronic forms, whenever feasible.
* [ ] With limited resources, agencies **should** prioritize providing digital options for those forms that directly support the delivery of those services or benefits that have the greatest impact on the public.
* [ ] •  Design digital forms first: When agencies need to revise forms that have both digital and paper versions, agencies **should** design the digital form first and then use the digital form as a baseline for the redesign of the paper form.
* [ ] •  Digitize paper forms: Agencies **should** establish internal review processes to routinely identify non-digital forms and expedite the digitization of forms related to serving the public.
* [ ] Agencies **should** prioritize the digitization of those forms that have the greatest impact on the public.
* [ ] •  Build adaptable and resilient digital forms: In building new or upgraded digital forms, agencies **should** prioritize designing platforms that allow for efficient future alterations to question sets or response options.
* [ ] Similarly, agencies **should** prioritize building digital forms that can be scaled or replicated for use in similar information collections or transactions that an agency administers.
* [ ] •  Keep digital forms digital, end-to-end: Agencies **should** ensure that information collected via a digital form remains digital throughout the information lifecycle.
* [ ] For example, if information is collected from a digital form, it **should** not be converted or transformed into a paper or electronic format and then back into a digital format, unless strictly necessary.
* [ ] Services While websites, digital services, and other digital interactions **should** make up the majority of the public’s interactions with the Federal Government, services can and **should** be provided over different channels to best meet the needs of the public.
* [ ] •  Increase digital channels and self-service: Agencies **should**, to the greatest extent practicable, make services provided to the public available in a digital channel and in a manner that maximizes self-service task or transaction completion.
* [ ] •  Meet people where they are: For each service, agencies **should** determine the channels that are most appropriate for the intended customer or user group(s), considering the accessibility, language, and technology needs of that audience.
* [ ] This means that agencies **should** afford the public the ability to complete a transaction over at least one traditional service channel (e.g., in person, postal mail, or phone).
* [ ] Agencies **should** strive to find a balance between the convenience and usability of the service and any signature requirement and associated processes.
* [ ] 74  •  Avoid unnecessary signature requirements for forms and services: Agencies **should** avoid establishing unnecessary signature or identity proofing requirements that create user friction and prevent or impede an individual from successfully utilizing a form or  71  Government Paperwork Elimination Act (GPEA), Pub.
* [ ] 75 When signatures or identity verification are required for a transaction, agencies **should** not collect more information from the user than is required to securely complete the transaction.
* [ ] 76 •  Maintain a digital equivalent method: To the greatest extent practicable, agencies **should** not require a handwritten signature (i.e., wet signature) or other in-person identity proofing requirements as a requirement for completing a public-facing form or service without providing the public with a comparable digital equivalent method for submitting information or transacting with an agency.
* [ ] To the greatest extent practicable, agencies **should** ensure that any public-facing form or service can be provided and completed by the user over different channels, preferably over at least one traditional service channel (e.g., in person) and one digital service channel (e.g., web application) and ideally in the channel that is most convenient to the user.
* [ ] •  Use identity verification when greater assurance of identity is needed: Agencies **should** use appropriate identity verification processes for online transactions, commensurate with the agency’s risk assessment, when there is a need for assurance of the identity of the user or the authenticity and integrity of the transaction.
* [ ] Signatures alone do not provide identity assurance and **should** not be used by themselves for identity verification, identity proofing, or non-repudiation purposes when identity assurance is required.
* [ ] Agencies **should** regularly measure customer perceptions of trust, confidence, and satisfaction and use customer experience data and customer feedback information to inform business decision-making and operations.
* [ ] •  Provide transparency to users: Agencies **should** design transparency into the information and services they provide so the public has a greater understanding of how agencies operate.
* [ ] Agencies **should** prioritize designing and adding topic-based transparency details into their websites and digital services based on feedback they receive from customers from various sources, such as frequently asked questions they receive from customers or users for a specific service.
* [ ] •  Build effective digital services: Agencies **should** utilize the Digital Services Playbook from the United States Digital Service when developing services that are provided over a digital channel.
* [ ] 79  •  Use cross-functional teams: Agencies **should** build cross-functional teams that have expertise in human-centered design and agile development practices.
* [ ] 79  27  •  Leverage government-wide programs: Agencies **should** utilize government-wide programs provided by GSA, the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), and other Federal shared-service providers, where practicable, when developing websites and digital services.
* [ ] •  Streamline and consolidate systems: Agencies **should** develop an enterprise-wide strategy for adopting centralized systems and services that can be shared across departments, components, offices, and programs, to the greatest extent practicable.
* [ ] Agencies **should** work to consolidate outdated and duplicative systems and services within their agencies.
* [ ] •  Enable data sharing: Agencies **should** improve the efficiency and effectiveness of data sharing and support processes among agencies and with State and local governments to improve customer experience and service delivery.
* [ ] 81 Where feasible and appropriate, agencies **should** collaborate to find and actualize data-sharing opportunities with other agencies or with State and local governments.
* [ ] Data sharing **should** be pursued only when there is a demonstrated user need or potential benefits for individuals, when the benefits outweigh the costs, 82 and with appropriate privacy and security safeguards.
* [ ] Within 180 days of the date of this memorandum, unless an alternative deadline is specified elsewhere for specific requirements, executive agencies **should** address the requirements outlined in this memorandum to the fullest extent practicable when designing new or redesigning existing websites and digital services.
* [ ] Finally, agencies **should** also consider the digital experience of Federal employees by striving to also remediate those internal-facing websites and digital services that serve Federal employees.
* [ ] Agencies **should** review available automated scanning data (e.g., through GSA’s Site Scanning Program) for these sites to assess conformance and prioritize actions related to the requirements and recommendations of this memorandum.
* [ ] GSA **should** explore establishing an interagency industry working group to maintain an ongoing dialogue between agencies and industry on emergent implementation needs.
* [ ] Develop and maintain a Federal Services Index: Within 180 days, GSA, in coordination with OMB, will develop and maintain a process or tool for agencies to use to submit and manage an inventory of services offered to the public, which **should**, to the greatest extent practicable, contain descriptive information about each service, usage data for each service (e.g., volume, aggregated user demographics), and a list of the tasks to get or manage each service and the channels available to complete each task (e.g., online, phone, mail, in person).
* [ ] GSA, in coordination with OMB, **should** review and identify opportunities to use existing data sources or data collection to reduce agency burden.
* [ ] Keep public-facing website information up-to-date: Agencies **should** regularly review and identify their public-facing websites.
* [ ] Keep service information up-to-date: Agencies **should** periodically review service information in the Federal Services Index and update this information as needed.
* [ ] Update internal controls and policies: Agency Chief Information Officers (or designees) **should** periodically review policies and internal control processes in coordination with other appropriate agency officials and update them as necessary to ensure that websites and digital services meet applicable legal and policy requirements, including those established or reiterated by this memorandum.
* [ ] Perform evidence-based accountability reviews: The Chief Information Officer at any agency listed in 31 U.S.C. § 901(b)(1) or (b)(2) **should** regularly review and evaluate IT investments to identify struggling or underperforming IT projects (i.e., public-facing websites and digital services that are in significant misalignment with the requirements and recommendations of this memorandum).
* [ ] Agencies **should** use evidence-based accountability review processes, such as TechStat sessions, 90 to identify performance issues, conduct a root-cause analysis of those issues, identify challenges or barriers (including any resource and budget constraints), develop corrective action plans that may potentially address these causes, and develop a timeline for implementing corrective actions.
* [ ] Policy Assistance Questions or inquiries about this memorandum **should** be addressed to OMB through the Office of the Federal Chief Information Officer (OFCIO) via email: ofcio@omb.eop.gov  89  See OMB Memorandum M-22-10, Improving Access to Public Benefits Programs Through the Paperwork Reduction Act.

## Could sentences

* [ ] Agencies should not establish unnecessary brand and product identities, or multiple uncoordinated identities, that **could** create public confusion (such as using an internal-facing project or program name for the name of a public-facing digital service).
* [ ] 16 Poor information quality reduces public trust, introduces confusion that **could** negatively impact individuals who seek government information and services, and hinders government operations.
* [ ] This search function should be a site-wide global search and, when appropriate, **could** be a feature-specific search for a subset of the website content that is of significant public 11  interest (e.g., find-a-form tool).
* [ ] For example, agencies **could** provide users with an option to configure the view they prefer, such as tiles or lists, while using a digital service or **could** develop a decision support tool with filtering and sorting options to help users make the most informed decision about an offered service.
* [ ] 57 Agencies must provide a privacy notice, whenever feasible, where a Privacy Act statement is not required but members of the public nonetheless **could** provide PII to the agency using a website or digital service.
* [ ] This should include information on how to access and use public web APIs, public source code or code repositories, and any other appropriate developer tools or technical documentation that **could** help developers build integrated digital experiences.
* [ ] 23  implementing existing technologies or making procedural, regulatory, or legislative changes, that **could** allow the form to be made available to the public in a digital format.
* [ ] For example, agencies **could** design a case status tool that includes estimated processing times per phase, assigned adjudication staff, and completed and uncompleted steps.
* [ ] 3) Assistance provided through customer call center support that **could** be designed as selfservice digital tasks for customers to reach resolution on their own.

## May sentences

* [ ] In designing their websites and digital services, agencies must strive from the start to maximize access and usability so the widest possible range of people **may** reach and interact with the government through its websites and digital services.
* [ ] The term “website” should be read to apply to websites (including web applications); however, when the term “web application” is used then the requirements **may** only be appropriate for web applications.
* [ ] Agencies should be aware of the distinctions between web sites, applications, and services when attempting to apply the principles of this memorandum to web services, since it **may** be technically inappropriate or technically unfeasible.
* [ ] 12 Agencies **may** use third-party services whose domain names do not end in .gov or .mil for official communications when doing so is necessary to effectively interact with the public.
* [ ] 10 Agencies, departments, components, offices, or programs **may** establish independent organizational brands, as appropriate.
* [ ] Agencies should avoid using a tone in their notices to users (such as about access, authorized use, or monitoring) that **may** have the unintended consequences of eroding trust and impacting the ability of users to successfully transact or engage with government.
* [ ] Similarly, to the extent practicable, an agency **may** leverage a third-party service on a non-governmental domain to host websites or content for official communication or delivery of services on behalf of the government, but the agency should perform domain name masking with a .gov or .mil domain name to verify to the public that they are interacting with the government and not a nongovernmental actor.
* [ ] Duplicative websites and content can also be problematic because they **may** cause public confusion (about, for example, which answer is the right one) or obscure the most appropriate content (by, for example, making it unclear which agency is positioned to give an authoritative answer).
* [ ] At the same time, agencies should be cognizant of potentially relevant obligations and policies, 17 such as the need to provide adequate notice when initiating, substantially modifying, or terminating significant information that the public **may** be using (such as historical information); removal of information that is useful to the public can also negatively impact trust.
* [ ] Similar content on multiple websites **may** be appropriate when those websites serve different audiences or user needs.
* [ ] If the target audience is composed of experts (e.g., scientists), a higher reading level **may** be appropriate.
* [ ] If the target audience is people who **may** have trouble reading (e.g., low reading literacy, people with cognitive disabilities), then a lower reading level **may** be more ideal.
* [ ] 21  8  •  Avoid unnecessary “legalese”: Unnecessary legal jargon **may** inhibit public comprehension.
* [ ] Agencies **may** in some circumstances be required by statute or Executive order to provide information and services in multiple languages.
* [ ] Localization **may** go beyond translation of text and might involve changing images, color palettes, symbols and systems, etc.
* [ ] In this situation, localization **may** be more appropriate.
* [ ] 27  10  To better inform the public of government information and services, agencies **may** need to use websites and digital services to promote awareness of government services, benefits, and programs.
* [ ] •  Ensure campaigns are strategic and time-bound: Consistent with applicable law, agencies **may** establish campaigns (e.g., informational, public awareness, public affairs) to communicate with the public about an issue, service, benefit, or opportunity.
* [ ] The Federal Government’s public web presence is an open book that **may** be crawled, archived, or “scraped” by anyone in the general public, at any time.
* [ ] 30 Timestamps **may** not be appropriate for dynamic websites and web applications with server-generated content.
* [ ] While agencies **may** list their registered domains as a reference, they must not limit the scope of the policy to specific websites or use an allow list to restrict the range of users who **may** submit reports.
* [ ] 39 For example, agencies **may** designate subject matter experts to help ensure that websites and web applications meet mission outcomes and legal, policy, and other requirements.
* [ ] For example, when  41  There **may** be legal limitations on compensating participants.
* [ ] 46 •  Design mobile-friendly and device-agnostic websites and digital services: To the greatest extent practicable, agencies must ensure that public-facing websites and digital services are mobile-friendly and developed in such a way that the website **may** be navigated, viewed, and accessed on a smartphone, tablet computer, or other mobile device.
* [ ] Agencies are responsible for ensuring their activities and policies comply with all applicable laws (e.g., the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act), which **may** have additional requirements.
* [ ] At the discretion of the SAOP, sub-agencies, components, and programs **may** maintain a sub-agency-, component-, or programspecific privacy program page.
* [ ] Agencies must list and provide links to PIAs.
However, agencies **may** determine not to include a link to a PIA if doing so would raise security concerns or reveal classified or sensitive information (sensitive information **may** include information that is potentially damaging to a national interest, law enforcement effort, or competitive business interest).
* [ ] Agencies **may** also identify and provide contact information for any component-level privacy officials.
* [ ] Tightly coupled systems can be more difficult to scale and maintain, and **may** introduce unnecessary business risk.
* [ ] Required Links Agencies **may** need to convey information about legal compliance, points of contact, or other topics of interest to the public on their websites.
* [ ] Components, offices, or programs **may** utilize the same required links as their parent agency, if appropriate.
* [ ] Multi-channel services **may** include in-person offices, phone and contact centers, websites and web applications, mobile applications, postal mail, email, text/SMS, chat, and social media.
* [ ] The use of signatures **may** not be appropriate for every scenario involving a public-facing form or service.
* [ ] 25,508-21 (**May** 2, 2000).
* [ ] Critical roles **may** include product managers, 80 user experience researchers and designers, content designers and copywriters, front-end developers, software engineers, and data analysts and **may** include accessibility specialists, privacy and security specialists, information architects, service designers, behavioral scientists, data scientists, or other specialized roles.
* [ ] Agencies should use evidence-based accountability review processes, such as TechStat sessions, 90 to identify performance issues, conduct a root-cause analysis of those issues, identify challenges or barriers (including any resource and budget constraints), develop corrective action plans that **may** potentially address these causes, and develop a timeline for implementing corrective actions.

