## Must sentences

* [ ] Given the significance of the services they provide and the requirements in E.O. 14058, HISPs **must**: •  In collaboration with OMB, designate at least two (2) priority services, in alignment with the requirements of the 21st Century IDEA and guidance outlined in this section, for focused assessment and the activities of this guidance (by May 31, 2024);  •  Collect customer feedback in accordance with section 280.14 for identified moments that matter along designated service journeys (e.g., no longer sufficient to only report general call center satisfaction measures without the context of a service journey);  •  Submit this feedback data to OMB at a minimum quarterly, until feedback data is provided directly to Performance.gov through an open application programming interface (API) (once developed).
* [ ] HISPs **must** implement at least one customer feedback survey for each of their current designated services.
* [ ] If only doing one survey for a service, HISPs **must** implement a customer feedback survey at the completion of the service journey.
* [ ] HISP customer feedback surveys **must** include: Q1 Required Wording: This [interaction / service] increased my trust in [High Impact Service Provider].
* [ ] All questions on the survey **must** be optional for respondents, meaning that a respondent's decision to not answer one or more questions on the survey will not in any way affect the respondent's receipt of benefits or services, subject them to any penalties, or otherwise negatively impact them.
* [ ] HISPs **must** consult with OMB through the PRA approval process prior to implementation to ensure survey validity.
* [ ] HISPs **must** also submit raw data for Questions 1 and 2 so that OMB may conduct analysis on drivers tapped for individual trust responses.

## Should sentences

* [ ] How **should** agencies identify services?
* [ ] How **should** agencies collect metrics to analyze digital services?
* [ ] How **should** agencies manage customer experience?
* [ ] How **should** customer experience be reflected in an agency's Annual Performance Plan?
* [ ] What steps **should** HISPs take to manage customer experience?
* [ ] How **should** HISPs designate priority services?
* [ ] How **should** HISPs collect and submit "post-transaction" feedback data?
* [ ] How **should** agencies participate in designated Life Experiences?
* [ ] All agencies **should** apply the guidance provided in this section for annual customer experience management and planning, as well as the design of feedback surveys and measurement strategies for the performance of Federal services.
* [ ] All Federal agencies **should** have knowledge, and in some instances documentation, of the services they provide (e.g., SNAP recertification, land border checkpoints, business tax filing) and **should** be able to articulate how the components of the services, such as the occasion, offering, channels, roles, and tools, come together to make up the agencies' approach to service design and delivery.
* [ ] 280.3  How **should** agencies identify services?
* [ ] Agencies **should** maintain accessible methods for completing services to enable individuals without sufficient access to information technology and/or digital literacy to successfully utilize those services.
* [ ] 280.5  How **should** agencies collect metrics to analyze digital services?
* [ ] Agencies **should** ensure, to the greatest extent practicable, that all services and tasks are made available through digital channels using industry leading practices and human-centered design.
* [ ] In general, and consistent with the requirements in OMB Memoranda M-10-22 of June 25, 2010, Guidance for Online Use of Web Measurement and Customization Technologies agencies **should** use the following leading practices for gathering and analyzing metrics for digital services: •  In designing metrics for a website or web application, agencies **should** work backward from customer insights and strategic questions.
* [ ] Agencies **should** define specific actions they plan to take to improve digital experience with the service or product based on insights derived from digital analytics.
* [ ] •  An agency's digital analytics program (e.g., the General Services Administration's Digital Analytics Program) **should** capture data from key customer actions, such as button clicks, page views, and transactions.
* [ ] •  Website and web application data **should** be collected in a structured and machine-readable format to facilitate quantitative aggregation (e.g., sum, median, mean, minimum, maximum) of customer behavior data for analytics and monitoring.
* [ ] •  As new user flows are added, digital analytics **should** be implemented at the launch of the new feature to ensure comprehensive monitoring of customer digital experience.
* [ ] Changes to continuous monitoring and dashboards **should** reflect any user flows that are optimized, deprecated, or replaced.
* [ ] 280.7  How **should** agencies manage customer experience?
* [ ] At multiple levels of government organizations (departmental enterprise, bureau, program office, service center), elements of core CX functions **should** be present.
* [ ] Each fiscal year, Executive agencies **should** reflect on their maturity and capacity to perform these functions, such as during strategic review, annual planning, and in executing requirements outlined in this section.
* [ ] Further, agencies and programs **should** develop an understanding of the types of and explicit definition of the services they offer (as defined in sections 280.2 and 280.3); this **should** include an assessment of the talent they have to perform and oversee these functions, and specifically identify needs for hiring individuals with the expertise and experience into their agency.
* [ ] When developing approaches to customer engagement, research, and feedback gathering, agencies **should** also consider burdens placed on individuals and groups most affected by information collection related to accessing and maintaining eligibility for public benefits programs.
* [ ] Agencies **should** note that approval under the Paperwork Reduction Act is not always required when speaking with members of the public, and OIRA has published extensive guidelines that can help guide agencies to appropriate flexibilities.
* [ ] Contact the OMB CX Desk Officer for an example of what a justification for incentives **should** look like for purposes of the PRA submission to OMB.
* [ ] There are various ways agencies **should** be collecting and using customer experience measures to monitor, improve, and report on the customer experience of their designated services.
* [ ] •  Data-Driven Decision-Making: Data gathered by agencies (e.g., administrative data, systems data, digital analytics data, post-transaction feedback data, etc.) **should** form a customer listening data ecosystem that informs agency decision-making, goalsetting, and strategic planning.
* [ ] Data **should** be made available to staff directly managing service delivery, as well as leadership overseeing agency priority-setting on a regular and consistent basis.
* [ ] Agencies **should** also ensure staff exist within the organization that have the skillset and experience to analyze and communicate various data.
* [ ] Where practical, agencies **should** integrate customer experience measures into existing dashboards of operational metrics in ways that consider specifics of service delivery, such as differentiating between channels, regions, and customer segments.
* [ ] 280.10 How **should** customer experience be reflected in an agency's Annual Performance Plan?
* [ ] Agency Annual Performance Plans **should** include indicators for outcomes related to customer experience and relevant service levels.
* [ ] This **should** include customer feedback data collected as described below in section 280.14, as well as service level indicators (e.g., wait times, website analytics) appropriate to their program.
* [ ] In addition to relevant program and field office staff, these activities **should** serve as intra-agency convening mechanisms around the customers served and involve cross-cutting representation from mission support functions within the agency, including the Chief Information Officer, Chief Human Capital Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Performance Improvement Officer, Evaluation Officer, Chief Data Officer, and Customer Experience / Digital Service Teams.
* [ ] 280.12 What steps **should** HISPs take to manage customer experience?
* [ ] 280.13 How **should** HISPs designate priority services?
* [ ] Page 8 of Section 280  OMB Circular No. A-11 (2023)  SECTION 280—MANAGING CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE AND IMPROVING SERVICE DELIVERY  As HISPs determine which services to designate, they **should** consider designating priority services that focus on the one or two most important things the HISP does to serve its customers (e.g., high percentage of the population served, high volume of annual transactions, outsized impact in the lives of the people served [i.e., where successful use of the services has a consequential impact on the livelihood of an individual group, such as Tribal members' access to trust assets, an individual applying for benefits under the Energy Employees Occupational Illness Compensation program]).
* [ ] Importance can be defined in several different ways, but each HISP **should** be able to clearly articulate why choosing this service drives value to the organization and to customers and contributes to the performance of the agency, and **should** utilize data to determine which services to prioritize.
* [ ] HISPs **should** also consider OMB Memorandum M-22-10, of April 13, 2022, Improving Access to Public Benefits Programs Through the Paperwork Reduction Act when choosing services to designate.
* [ ] HISPs **should** remember that services require action and **should** be considered through the lens of the customer: services involve actions taken by customers to accomplish tasks, receive benefits, submit information, or otherwise engage with an agency HISPs **should** also consider how designated services relate to their agency strategy plans, priority goals, learning agendas, equity plans, organizational health measures, and other planning processes.
* [ ] 280.14 How **should** HISPs collect and submit "post-transaction" feedback data?
* [ ] To assist in developing comparable, government-wide scores that enable cross-agency benchmarking (when relevant), identify those improvements and service elements that most effectively improve trust for different service types, and reduce burden on the public, programs providing services to the public **should** measure their touchpoint and transactional performance in line with industry leading practices for customer feedback surveys.
* [ ] HISPs **should** work with OMB to determine opportunities for post-transaction customer feedback that are most relevant and appropriate for their designated services, and provide data that enables the ongoing delivery and improvement of the services.
* [ ] All HISPs **should** consider switching to this model, although exceptions will be made for HISPs that have demonstrated success with the current model and facility with and capacity to use more granular data.
* [ ] The best practice is that the total survey length **should** be no more than 15 questions and five minutes of burden (in addition to accounting for the PRA considerations in section 280.9).
* [ ] Any additional questions **should** be placed after the required questions outlined above.
* [ ] • HISPs **should** administer surveys by applying practices that promote the validity, accuracy, and utility of the data and that facilitate ease of response.
* [ ] • HISPs **should** deploy post-transaction feedback survey(s) in the channels (e.g., mail, phone, online, email, texting, in-person, etc.) that are appropriate and relevant to the experience of the customers for that service (e.g., if a service includes visits to a government webpage, surveying online makes sense; if a service is paper-based, a paper survey with both mail-in and phone option is appropriate).
* [ ] OMB Circular No. A-11 (2023)  Page 11 of Section 280  SECTION 280—MANAGING CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE AND IMPROVING SERVICE DELIVERY  •  OMB will work with HISPs to determine whether they **should** use binary questions or whether they **should** use Likert-scale, given the relevant context of each particular HISP.
* [ ] HISPs (many of which are collecting data in real-time) **should** submit their data as soon as they are able following the last day of the quarter.
* [ ] Actions **should** address pain points identified through service assessments, customer feedback, human-centered design research, and other evidence generation activities.
* [ ] CX Action Plans **should** focus on customer outcomes and **should** communicate what success will look like in terms of what any proposed improvements will mean for an individual customer using the service.
* [ ] 7  Agencies seeking to create an agency-specific CX reporting website (i.e., agency.gov/cx) highlighting their CX efforts **should** contact OMB so that reporting duplication and overlap can be minimized.
* [ ] 280.16 How **should** agencies participate in designated Life Experiences?

## Could sentences

* [ ] Depending on the service and transaction context, other iterations of wording for this question **could** include sentences such as: • Based on my experience calling the IRS, I trust IRS is working in the best interest of the American public.
* [ ] Page 10 of Section 280  OMB Circular No. A-11 (2023)  SECTION 280—MANAGING CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE AND IMPROVING SERVICE DELIVERY  If respondent provides "thumbs down" or 1-4-point rating: Q2b Required Wording: What **could** have been better?

## May sentences

* [ ] The collection and use of website and web application data **may** be used to augment point-in-time data and **may** also be instrumental for evaluating an agency's changes to digital services that enhance customer interactions and experiences.
* [ ] Below are a few highlights that **may** be useful when an agency is looking to learn about the public's experience with their services: •  Nine or Fewer Members of the Public: PRA approval is not needed when an agency is speaking with nine or fewer members of the public.
* [ ] If your agency wishes to provide compensation or incentives to participants in focus groups or other similarly time and effort-intensive feedback surveys, the first step is to have a conversation with your agency's legal counsel to determine whether your agency **may** offer incentives, and if so, what kind and in what amount.
* [ ] With some exceptions, OMB defines post-transaction feedback as the 48hour period following the end of a customer interaction with a service, acknowledging that the most appropriate post-transaction feedback opportunity **may** vary by the type of service.
* [ ] Data types **may** include structured sources (e.g., end of interaction; end of journey feedback surveys), and unstructured sources (e.g., emails, online reviews, social media messaging, chats, and call center notes).
* [ ] Given the significance of the services they provide and the requirements in E.O. 14058, HISPs must: •  In collaboration with OMB, designate at least two (2) priority services, in alignment with the requirements of the 21st Century IDEA and guidance outlined in this section, for focused assessment and the activities of this guidance (by **May** 31, 2024);  •  Collect customer feedback in accordance with section 280.14 for identified moments that matter along designated service journeys (e.g., no longer sufficient to only report general call center satisfaction measures without the context of a service journey);  •  Submit this feedback data to OMB at a minimum quarterly, until feedback data is provided directly to Performance.gov through an open application programming interface (API) (once developed).
* [ ] Quarterly submissions will be due the last business day of the month following the last day of the quarter; for FY 2024, these due dates are January 31, April 30, July 31, and October 31, 2024;  •  Conduct an annual CX Capacity Assessment (submitted to OMB by February 23, 2024) for both HISPs and HISP-maintaining departments and discuss the resulting findings with OMB at an annual CX Deep Dive (completed by April 14, 2024);  •  Develop a draft CX Action Plan (submitted to OMB by **May** 31, 2024) and final CX Action Plan (submitted to OMB, along with the budget submission, by September 9, 2024) annually for each designated HISP and HISP-maintaining department, with a focus on improvement actions for designated services; and,  •  As directed in E.O. 14058, embed more customer-focused practices into their service design and delivery such as conducting service assessments, customer research through qualitative and quantitative research and journey mapping, approaching more holistic calculations of burden (learning, compliance, and psychological costs, in accordance with OMB Memorandum M-22-10) for their service transactions and full journeys, and continually user-test program elements with customers to refine and improve.
* [ ] HISPs **may** deploy multiple or as many post-transaction customer feedback surveys per designated services as needed and appropriate.
* [ ] (Tap/Select all that apply) Driver Corresponding Statement (Not shown)  Status  (HISPs **may** choose one statement per category to be shown in a multiple-selection question format.) My need was addressed.
* [ ] (Tap/Select all that apply) Driver Corresponding Statement  Status (HISPs **may** choose one statement per category to be shown in a multiple selection question format.) My need was not addressed.
* [ ] (Or similar.) [Free text response] **May** be excluded if format, such as an interactive voice response (IVR)-based survey, does not enable.
* [ ] Additional considerations: • If applicable and appropriate, HISPs **may** include additional questions that enable the HISP to collect more useful data, such as a question regarding the purpose of a visit or call.
* [ ] • To the extent possible, HISPs **may** use sampling techniques on high-volume transactions to split a long survey into several shorter surveys to reduce burden on the respondents while collecting sufficient data from a larger pool.
* [ ] HISPs **may** report data from multiple post-transaction feedback surveys for each designated service, if relevant and appropriate.
* [ ] HISPs must also submit raw data for Questions 1 and 2 so that OMB **may** conduct analysis on drivers tapped for individual trust responses.

